Next up, we have our selects that we wanna
style before we can keep on going up here,
so we'll finish up with this section.
So I'm gonna jump on over
to the mushroom guide here.
The first thing I'm gonna do is I noticed
everything is really glued together.
So inside my wrapper I am
gonna do a class of flow.
>> Kevin Powell: We're gonna collapse this
down just cuz it takes up so much room and
close that div, just to give us
that flow spacing we were doing.
Again, if you decided to put
that flow on the wrapper,
you'd have the same result here.
And if you collapse everything down,
it's just adding the spacing.
We have the h2, we get the spacing,
that's no spacing.
But it's adding the spacing
on top of the selects, and
then it's adding the spacing here on top
of the grid that we have right there.
For these selects, we do wanna
do a couple of things with them.
We need to change what they look like.
If you're in different browsers,
these will look a little bit different,
styling an actual select right now is
something that's not very easy to do.
The select that we see here is fine,
it's the options inside that you
have basically no control over.
There is work going on right
now to make selects styleable.
Originally, we were gonna have a Select
menu, it was gonna be a new element.
Now they're just giving us, I believe,
it's new pseudo class instead
that we'll be able to add.
I think it's only supported
in Chrome Canary right now or
it might be in Chrome behind a flag, I'm
not sure, it's really experimental, but
we will have styleable
selects in the future.
So if you're watching this,
you could look into that.
But as of the time of doing this,
we cannot do anything on the really
cool styling stuff, but
we can do some basic styling on them.
The first thing I am going to do, though,
is just put a div here around my selects
cuz one problem is they're
a little bit too close together.
>> Kevin Powell: You'll notice that
they're already next to each other,
selects are in-line elements-ish.
They're sort of like images and
other things that go next to one another.
But you can't control
the space between them.
It's either an empty space or
they'll be stuck together.
So by putting the div around there,
we can give that a class, and
I'm gonna call this a flex-group.
We don't really need this.
This is a class I use
on most of my projects.
In this one, I don't happen to need
it except in this one space, but
a lot of the time I do reuse this
class on lots of different things.
We could even technically
use it on the navigation.
Maybe we could have used it
on the tags here as well.
But the flex-group, if I come to my CSS,
I would put this in my layout layer.
I'll put it right at
the top where I can do
a flex-group is display: flex; gap.
It's gonna look, actually,
a lot like what we did with our tags.
So we could always refactor the tags to
use it if you felt like you wanted to.
A gap of 1 rem or
probably smaller actually, 0.5,
and the optional, but I usually
put a flex-wrap of wrap on there.
>> Kevin Powell: And
let's just see if that.
I didn't save my HTML file.
So they're both saved.
And because we're not changing much,
you can always make the gap a lot bigger
just to verify that it's actually working.
Cuz if you're making a small change to
something, you might wanna play with it.
Always exaggerate if you're not sure
it's making a change, just to be safe.
>> Kevin Powell: So with a flex-group
like that is basically anytime you
need things to go next to one another,
have a little bit of space between them,
you just throw that on there.
Again, it's sort of like a layout utility
class that can be helpful in your
projects.
And with that done, that's in my layout
just cuz it's a reusable layout,
I could potentially use that
anywhere I need in my site.
I'm then gonna do a find
to go to my components.
And in here,
I'm going to style my selects and
I'm gonna do that down
where my buttons were.
Just cuz I feel like it's related to
the buttons in the sense they're sort
of like form elements.
So there's the button and
going all the way down to the bottom.
And I can do a select, and I think I might
just do the general select like this.
Cuz I think if you had
any selects on your site,
they're probably gonna look the same.
At least that's my thinking.
It's rare that you have
different styling for them.
But if you'd prefer to give it
a class like we did on our sections,
it's fair enough, you could
definitely give it a class as well.
And I'm just going to come in.
We don't need too much on there,
a little bit of padding,
>> Kevin Powell: A background-color,
>> Kevin Powell: The green.
So the green is our accent-main.
>> Kevin Powell: The color
is obviously wrong.
Let's just go look fast,
I think my padding is way too big.
So, yeah, we need the padding, the color,
I think the font is already okay.
>> Kevin Powell: So
the padding is a bit too big.
The border: 0,
will always take a border off, whoops.
Border-radius, probably, the 2.
And the color will be the high-contrast.
>> Kevin Powell: One thing you'll notice
is the positioning of the little chevron
is not where it is in the design.
If I do this,
I'll just shrink this down so
if people want to see the code a bit more.
But the chevron's thingy, the drop arrow,
isn't position the same way
as it is in the design here.
It's very similar,
might be a little bit off.
Or you don't have control
over where that is.
That's part of selects not being stylable.
And I'm in Chrome right now, so
this is what the options look like.
If you're in another browser,
it will look a little bit different.
It's at the system level, so
the highlight-color could be different.
Firefox, Safari, they all will look
slightly different from what you see here,
there's nothing we can do about it.
You just live with it, but for me this
is completely fine with how it's styled.
I don't think it's worth stressing about
or coming in with a custom look for this.
Cuz the advantage with using
the built in elements,
if you don't need very specific styling
is they're keyboard accessible.
So if I push Space, it opens it, and I
can use my arrow keys to go between them.
And then I can select one of them
with either pushing Enter or, yeah,
select one by pushing Enter there.
Rebuilding that behavior in there
where the right keys are opening,
closing, selecting things.
If you wanna build a completely
custom one, is quite a lot of work.
So it's always one of those
things of balancing out,
is it worth coming in with
something completely custom?
Sometimes you have to do it,
but for now or for
this project I think
this is completely fine.
And the last thing on that note is,
if you did want a custom chevron or
something there that actually moves or
turns,
you could technically do it
without any thing too fancy.
But it would require you coming in and
wrapping the select in a div.
And then you could use a pseudo
element as the dropdown arrow.
Because you can't put a pseudo element
directly on a select, it won't work.
You have to have an outer div.
All the stylings on the outer div,
you try and strip as much styling away on
the select as you can and you sort
of style it through the other thing.
So it becomes a lot more work just to
change the little drop down to make it
consistent from one browser to the other.
So, again, that could be something
you could do as a progressive or
an enhancement once we're
finished with this project,
if it's something you'd wanna dive into.
Here's the blog post, it's linked
in the lesson about feedback for
customizable selects.
Cuz it's really early,
early days right now.
And the CSS Working Group's doing this
a lot, whereas, if they have a proposal,
they build it into one of the browsers so
people can play with it, and
then they ask for feedback.
Is this what you want, does this work
the way that makes sense and all of that?
So how they're doing it?
Yeah, they're giving us this pseudo
element picker function thing.
So you could actually style
things the way you'd want to.
This is a long way away from
where we are right now.
But if you're interested in it, it is in
the course notes if you wanna read more
about it and give your opinion on it.
Cuz they do need our opinions
when these things are happening.